---
title: "Core tests"
---

# Core tests

These tests verify the platform components required to implement the Savvy API are working properly. As of this version, the main component is the `ubuntu-touch-customization-hooks` package. Downstreams should not have to worry much about the tests in the core other than verifying that they should be passing.  If the tests in core are not passing, all downstream customizations will probably be broken.

## `core.test_build`

 * `path = '/custom/build_id'`

    Custom tarball build timestamp, generated by jenkins

 * `class BuildCustomizationTests(*args, **kwargs)`
 * `test_build_id()`

    `build_id is` read during every boot by an upstart job:

 * `custom-dconf-update.conf`

    If build_id is newer than the dconf database on the device, then the system infers a new customization tarball has been installed and that potentially new custom dconf keys have been shipped. If so, the upstart job regenerates the dconf database.

Other properties of build_id:

  * generated automatically by jenkins at build time.
  * contents must be a valid date epoch string.
  * **read only** from the perspective of downstream.

## `core.test_customization_enabled`

 * `customized_flag_path = '~/.customized'`

    Flag to indicate pre-loaded sample content has been copied once

 * `class GeneralCustomizationEnablement(*args, **kwargs)`
 * `test_customization_enablement()`

    Downstreams may wish to ship pre-loaded sample content such as movies or music to their users. The implementation copies content from the read-only filesystem to the user's home directory, which is not known until first boot. The presence of the `~/.customized` flag signals that the sample content has already been copied to the user area, and that it should not be copied again. This implementation allows the user to delete the sample content if desired, but will also properly re-copy the content to a new user after a "factory reset" event. For more details, read scripts/touch in the following package: `lp:ubuntu/initramfs-tools-ubuntu-touch`. Downstreams should _not_ modify this file.

## `core.test_upstartjobs`

 * `upstart1 = '/usr/share/upstart/sessions/custom-env.conf'`

    Custom Upstart job file

 * `class UpstartCustomizationTests(*args, **kwargs)`

    To implement the Ubuntu Savvy architecture, the contents of the custom tarball are unpacked into the `/custom` directory. The rest of the system is adapted to search in the `/custom` directory for data or directives to change look, feel, and behavior from default.  

To inform the system to search in `/custom` for these components, an Upstart job is shipped in the `ubuntu-touch-customization-hooks` package. This Upstart job sets the proper environment variables directing the system to search in `/custom` for customization components.

This test ensures the `ubuntu-touch-customization-hooks` package has been installed properly and that it sets the proper environment variables.

Downstream _should not_ modify this package or the Upstart job. However, if you require additional environment variables, please [file a bug in the savilerow project](https://bugs.launchpad.net/savilerow/+bugs).

 * `test_presence_of_customized_upstart_files()`

    Ensure files for Upstart job are installed in filesystem.

 * `test_if_dconf_paths_are_exported()`

    Ensure Upstart job has set customization environment variables properly.
